doc/content/en/04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/04-security-upgrade/_index.md, before:

---
title: Security Upgrade
weight: 4
url: /administration/database-operations/security-upgrade
description: How to perform security upgrades on StackGres clusters.
showToc: true
---

A security upgrade updates the container images and operating system-level packages of a StackGres cluster without changing the PostgreSQL major or minor version. This is distinct from a [minor version upgrade]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/06-minor-version-upgrade" %}}) which changes the PostgreSQL version itself. Security upgrades address vulnerabilities in the base container images, libraries, and system packages. StackGres allows you to perform security upgrades declaratively through [SGDbOps]({{% relref "06-crd-reference/08-sgdbops" %}}).

## When to Use

- When new container images are available with security patches
- To apply OS-level security fixes without changing PostgreSQL versions
- As part of a regular maintenance schedule to keep clusters up to date

## Upgrade Methods

The security upgrade operation supports two methods:

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `InPlace` | Restarts each Pod in the existing cluster one at a time. Does not require additional resources but causes longer service disruption when only a single instance is present. |
| `ReducedImpact` | Creates a new updated replica before restarting existing Pods. Requires additional resources to spawn the temporary replica but minimizes downtime. Recommended for production environments. |

## Basic Security Upgrade

Perform a security upgrade using the reduced impact method:

```yaml
apiVersion: stackgres.io/v1
kind: SGDbOps
metadata:
  name: security-upgrade
spec:
  sgCluster: my-cluster
  op: securityUpgrade
  securityUpgrade:
    method: ReducedImpact
```

## In-Place Security Upgrade

For non-production environments or when additional resources are not available:

```yaml
apiVersion: stackgres.io/v1
kind: SGDbOps
metadata:
  name: security-upgrade-inplace
spec:
  sgCluster: my-cluster
  op: securityUpgrade
  securityUpgrade:
    method: InPlace
```

> For production environments with a single instance, the in-place method will cause service disruption for the duration of the Pod restart. Use `ReducedImpact` when possible.

## Monitoring the Operation

After creating the SGDbOps resource, you can monitor the progress:

```
kubectl get sgdbops security-upgrade -w
```

The operation status is tracked in `SGDbOps.status.conditions`. When the operation completes successfully, the status will show `Completed`.

## Related Documentation

- [SGDbOps CRD Reference]({{% relref "06-crd-reference/08-sgdbops" %}})
- [Minor Version Upgrade]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/06-minor-version-upgrade" %}})
- [Major Version Upgrade]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/07-major-version-upgrade" %}})

Commit message:

docs: add rollout alternative notes to restart and upgrade operations
Note that security upgrade, restart, and minor version upgrade can all
be performed via the rollout functionality without creating an SGDbOps.
Document that securityUpgrade and restart are logically equivalent since
the cluster version is updated on any restart. Add version alias tip
(e.g. "16" or "latest") to minor version upgrade. Add equivalent notes
to the sharded cluster database operations page for SGShardedDbOps.

doc/content/en/04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/04-security-upgrade/_index.md, after:

---
title: Security Upgrade
weight: 4
url: /administration/database-operations/security-upgrade
description: How to perform security upgrades on StackGres clusters.
showToc: true
---

A security upgrade updates the container images and operating system-level packages of a StackGres cluster without changing the PostgreSQL major or minor version. This is distinct from a [minor version upgrade]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/06-minor-version-upgrade" %}}) which changes the PostgreSQL version itself. Security upgrades address vulnerabilities in the base container images, libraries, and system packages. StackGres allows you to perform security upgrades declaratively through [SGDbOps]({{% relref "06-crd-reference/08-sgdbops" %}}).

> Since the SGCluster version is now updated on any restart, the `securityUpgrade` and `restart` SGDbOps operations are logically equivalent. You can also perform this operation without creating an SGDbOps by using the [rollout]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/11-rollout" %}}) functionality, which allows the operator to automatically roll out Pod updates based on the cluster's update strategy.

## When to Use

- When new container images are available with security patches
- To apply OS-level security fixes without changing PostgreSQL versions
- As part of a regular maintenance schedule to keep clusters up to date

## Upgrade Methods

The security upgrade operation supports two methods:

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `InPlace` | Restarts each Pod in the existing cluster one at a time. Does not require additional resources but causes longer service disruption when only a single instance is present. |
| `ReducedImpact` | Creates a new updated replica before restarting existing Pods. Requires additional resources to spawn the temporary replica but minimizes downtime. Recommended for production environments. |

## Basic Security Upgrade

Perform a security upgrade using the reduced impact method:

```yaml
apiVersion: stackgres.io/v1
kind: SGDbOps
metadata:
  name: security-upgrade
spec:
  sgCluster: my-cluster
  op: securityUpgrade
  securityUpgrade:
    method: ReducedImpact
```

## In-Place Security Upgrade

For non-production environments or when additional resources are not available:

```yaml
apiVersion: stackgres.io/v1
kind: SGDbOps
metadata:
  name: security-upgrade-inplace
spec:
  sgCluster: my-cluster
  op: securityUpgrade
  securityUpgrade:
    method: InPlace
```

> For production environments with a single instance, the in-place method will cause service disruption for the duration of the Pod restart. Use `ReducedImpact` when possible.

## Monitoring the Operation

After creating the SGDbOps resource, you can monitor the progress:

```
kubectl get sgdbops security-upgrade -w
```

The operation status is tracked in `SGDbOps.status.conditions`. When the operation completes successfully, the status will show `Completed`.

## Related Documentation

- [SGDbOps CRD Reference]({{% relref "06-crd-reference/08-sgdbops" %}})
- [Cluster Rollout]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/11-rollout" %}})
- [Restart Operation]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/05-restart" %}})
- [Minor Version Upgrade]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/06-minor-version-upgrade" %}})
- [Major Version Upgrade]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/07-major-version-upgrade" %}})
