doc/content/en/04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/05-restart/_index.md, before:

---
title: Restart
weight: 5
url: /administration/database-operations/restart
description: How to perform controlled restarts on StackGres clusters.
showToc: true
---

A controlled restart of a StackGres cluster can be performed declaratively through [SGDbOps]({{% relref "06-crd-reference/08-sgdbops" %}}). This is useful when configuration changes require a Pod restart to take effect, or when you need to perform a rolling restart of the cluster for maintenance purposes.

## When to Use

- After configuration changes that require a Pod restart (indicated by pending restart status)
- To perform a rolling restart for maintenance
- To apply changes to the underlying instance profile or Postgres configuration

## Restart Methods

The restart operation supports two methods:

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `InPlace` | Restarts each Pod in the existing cluster one at a time. Does not require additional resources but causes longer service disruption when only a single instance is present. |
| `ReducedImpact` | Creates a new updated replica before restarting existing Pods. Requires additional resources to spawn the temporary replica but minimizes downtime. Recommended for production environments. |

## Basic Restart

Perform a rolling restart using the reduced impact method:

```yaml
apiVersion: stackgres.io/v1
kind: SGDbOps
metadata:
  name: restart-cluster
spec:
  sgCluster: my-cluster
  op: restart
  restart:
    method: ReducedImpact
```

## Restart Only Pending Pods

To restart only the Pods that have pending configuration changes:

```yaml
apiVersion: stackgres.io/v1
kind: SGDbOps
metadata:
  name: restart-pending
spec:
  sgCluster: my-cluster
  op: restart
  restart:
    method: ReducedImpact
    onlyPendingRestart: true
```

When `onlyPendingRestart` is set to `true`, only Pods detected as needing a restart will be restarted. By default (`false`), all Pods in the cluster are restarted.

## Configuration Options

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `method` | string | - | The restart method: `InPlace` or `ReducedImpact`. |
| `onlyPendingRestart` | boolean | `false` | If `true`, restarts only Pods that are in pending restart state. |

## Monitoring the Operation

After creating the SGDbOps resource, you can monitor the progress:

```
kubectl get sgdbops restart-cluster -w
```

The operation status is tracked in `SGDbOps.status.conditions`. When the operation completes successfully, the status will show `Completed`.

## Related Documentation

- [SGDbOps CRD Reference]({{% relref "06-crd-reference/08-sgdbops" %}})
- [Rollout Strategy]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/11-rollout" %}})
- [Instance Profile Configuration]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/04-configuration/01-instance-profile" %}})

Commit message:

docs: add rollout alternative notes to restart and upgrade operations
Note that security upgrade, restart, and minor version upgrade can all
be performed via the rollout functionality without creating an SGDbOps.
Document that securityUpgrade and restart are logically equivalent since
the cluster version is updated on any restart. Add version alias tip
(e.g. "16" or "latest") to minor version upgrade. Add equivalent notes
to the sharded cluster database operations page for SGShardedDbOps.

doc/content/en/04-administration-guide/06-database-operations/05-restart/_index.md, after:

---
title: Restart
weight: 5
url: /administration/database-operations/restart
description: How to perform controlled restarts on StackGres clusters.
showToc: true
---

A controlled restart of a StackGres cluster can be performed declaratively through [SGDbOps]({{% relref "06-crd-reference/08-sgdbops" %}}). This is useful when configuration changes require a Pod restart to take effect, or when you need to perform a rolling restart of the cluster for maintenance purposes.

> Since the SGCluster version is now updated on any restart, the `restart` and `securityUpgrade` SGDbOps operations are logically equivalent. You can also perform this operation without creating an SGDbOps by using the [rollout]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/11-rollout" %}}) functionality, which allows the operator to automatically roll out Pod updates based on the cluster's update strategy.

## When to Use

- After configuration changes that require a Pod restart (indicated by pending restart status)
- To perform a rolling restart for maintenance
- To apply changes to the underlying instance profile or Postgres configuration

## Restart Methods

The restart operation supports two methods:

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `InPlace` | Restarts each Pod in the existing cluster one at a time. Does not require additional resources but causes longer service disruption when only a single instance is present. |
| `ReducedImpact` | Creates a new updated replica before restarting existing Pods. Requires additional resources to spawn the temporary replica but minimizes downtime. Recommended for production environments. |

## Basic Restart

Perform a rolling restart using the reduced impact method:

```yaml
apiVersion: stackgres.io/v1
kind: SGDbOps
metadata:
  name: restart-cluster
spec:
  sgCluster: my-cluster
  op: restart
  restart:
    method: ReducedImpact
```

## Restart Only Pending Pods

To restart only the Pods that have pending configuration changes:

```yaml
apiVersion: stackgres.io/v1
kind: SGDbOps
metadata:
  name: restart-pending
spec:
  sgCluster: my-cluster
  op: restart
  restart:
    method: ReducedImpact
    onlyPendingRestart: true
```

When `onlyPendingRestart` is set to `true`, only Pods detected as needing a restart will be restarted. By default (`false`), all Pods in the cluster are restarted.

## Configuration Options

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `method` | string | - | The restart method: `InPlace` or `ReducedImpact`. |
| `onlyPendingRestart` | boolean | `false` | If `true`, restarts only Pods that are in pending restart state. |

## Monitoring the Operation

After creating the SGDbOps resource, you can monitor the progress:

```
kubectl get sgdbops restart-cluster -w
```

The operation status is tracked in `SGDbOps.status.conditions`. When the operation completes successfully, the status will show `Completed`.

## Related Documentation

- [SGDbOps CRD Reference]({{% relref "06-crd-reference/08-sgdbops" %}})
- [Rollout Strategy]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/11-rollout" %}})
- [Instance Profile Configuration]({{% relref "04-administration-guide/04-configuration/01-instance-profile" %}})
